[DOC-526] Observability of catalog cache misses (#25625)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/launch-and-manage/monitor-and-alert/metrics/cache-storage.md

type: docs
---

> # RocksDB storage subsystem metrics

Reviewer: Heading 2 (##) is the highest docs uses in pages - you need to put this to ## and bump its children down a level (###)

Author: Fixed this

| `log_reader_bytes_read` | bytes | counter | Number of bytes read from WAL after the tablet start. |

These metrics are available per tablet and can be aggregated across the entire cluster using appropriate aggregations.

# YSQL cache metrics

## Catalog cache misses

> During YSQL query processing, system catalog (pg_catalog) tables that live on the yb-master are cached locally on the YSQL backend. Misses on this cache can make initial queries or queries after a DDL change slow until the corresponding cache is warmed up. The following table describes metrics for the specific pg_catalog tables which were not found in the cache and required a yb-master lookup. Such tables can then be preloaded by using [a tserver gflag](../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#ysql-catalog-preload-additional-table-list).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During YSQL query processing, system catalog (pg_catalog) tables that live on the yb-master are cached locally on each YSQL backend process. Misses on this cache can make initial queries or queries after a DDL change slow until the corresponding cache is warmed up. The following table describes metrics for the specific pg_catalog tables which were not found in the cache and required a yb-master lookup. Such tables can then be preloaded by using [a tserver gflag](../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#ysql-catalog-preload-additional-table-list).
```

> During YSQL query processing, system catalog (pg_catalog) tables that live on the yb-master are cached locally on each YSQL backend process. Misses on this cache can make initial queries or queries after a DDL change slow until the corresponding cache is warmed up. The following table describes metrics for the specific pg_catalog tables which were not found in the cache and required a yb-master lookup. Such tables can then be preloaded by using [a tserver gflag](../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#ysql-catalog-preload-additional-table-list).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During YSQL query processing, system catalog (pg_catalog) tables that live on the YB-Master are cached locally on each YSQL backend process. Misses on this cache can make initial queries or queries after a DDL change slow until the corresponding cache is warmed up. The following table describes metrics for the specific pg_catalog tables that were not found in the cache and required a YB-Master lookup. These tables can then be preloaded using the [ysql_catalog_preload_additional_table_list](../../../../reference/configuration/yb-tserver/#ysql-catalog-preload-additional-table-list) YB-TServer flag.
```

| Metric | Unit | Type | Description |
| :------ | :--- | :--- | :---------- |

> | `handler_latency_yb_ysqlserver_SQLProcessor_CatalogCacheTableMisses_count` | misses | counter | Count of catalog cache misses for this pg_catalog table or an associated index  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `handler_latency_yb_ysqlserver_SQLProcessor_CatalogCacheTableMisses_count` | misses | counter | Count of catalog cache misses for this pg_catalog table or an associated index.  |
```

> | `handler_latency_yb_ysqlserver_SQLProcessor_CatalogCacheTableMisses_count` | misses | counter | Count of catalog cache misses for this pg_catalog table or an associated index  |

Reviewer: Really too long for a table, might have to do this another way, just a bullet or something

Author: Let me know. Yes it is unreadable on a narrow screen, but not sure how to fix it
